Hey guys, welcome to this exciting new course,
applied web development with BHB.
I am your instructor for war Williams.
In this course, you will be learning the fundamentals
of web application development using HTML,
CSS, PHP, Apache server,
and hosting tools such as Heroku and C panel.
Of course all of that wouldn't be complete without tying it in with a MySQL database so
that we can have a fully dynamic and data-driven web application.
By the end of this course,
you should be able to accomplish basic web development with
HTML and CSS setup as XAMPP server,
understand the role of PHP in web applications.
Build a MySQL database using PHP, my admin,
and all of that would help you to build a data-driven and dynamic web applications.
We'll be looking at PHP PDO and how to style
or application using the most popular CSS framework bootstrap.
Ultimately, we would want to incorporate the use of source control through
the US github and ultimately host our web application on Heroku.
Most other courses will teach you how to understand PHP,
hard to do the basics of PHP,
but they don't really show you that enter and development process.
And that is what we hope to accomplish in this course.
At the end of this course,
you should be empowered and equipped with all the tools you
need to build any application that is asked of,
you know, before we go much further,
I want us to take the next few minutes to understand the tools that we'll be
using and how exactly they work in the whole web development ecosystem.
Now let's start with PHP.
Php is an open source web scripting language which is used mostly for service side stuff.
And it is short for Hypertext,
Preprocessor or personal homepage.
Each B is designed to be fully embedded in HTML and manipulate HTML as you the developer.
So deserts.
If you have any exposure to any other programming languages such as C plus, plus,
C Sharp or Java,
then you'll find that it's very familiar working with PHP.
If this is your first time working with any programming language,
then that's finally because we will be starting from the ground up.
The next big ticket item would be XAMPP server.
And XAMPP is really short for, well,
the X really means any environment.
The basis of XAMPP server is really what we call the lamp stack, that's AMP.
And the L really means Linux,
Apache, MySQL, and PHP or Perl.
So zombies really just an adoption of the lumps
stuck onto other operating systems such as Windows and MacOS.
Since the L stands for Linux,
and it is the most popular PHP development environment.
It's a one-stop shop.
You installed XAMPP and then you get the Apache server,
which is required to host the PHP code.
You get MySQL, which is a database server,
and you get all the required libraries for PHP and well pearl,
but we'll be doing PHP,
so we'll focus on the PHP libraries.
And more recently, the m also means Maria DB,
which is a spin-off of the more popular MySQL database engine.
Now here we take a quick look at what HTML and CSS and PHP will look like.
Well, this code snippet has no CSS in it just yet.
But there you see that you have some HTML,
which is the black text.
Then you have the PHP tags that were previously alluded to and some
cord which would print some text inside of an HTML page.
Traditionally HTML pages have the extension dot HTML or dot HTM.
When we're using PHP,
these files will have the extension dot PHP.
And PHP tags will only work in dot PHP files.
But as we go along and we get into more developments of then you'll see how that works.
Now every step of the way we will want to track our progress and we will
be doing this using source control and more specifically through GitHub.
Github are by extension on
source control that allows you to track changes to your project,
collaborate with team members.
If you have to work in a team setting instead of copying and pasting code fuzziness,
upload to a central place that everybody has access to all of your changes.
We can also manage project documentation centrally.
Then of the big GitHub is probably
the most popular and also free source control tool
that is on the Internet and it's widely accessible,
widely available to everybody.
And once again, it's free of charge.
The last thing I wanted to mention is Heroku,
which allows us to deploy PHP web applications in minutes.
And we can host the web application as well as the database all on Heroku.
We'll also be looking at using the more traditional routes,
which is C panel.
I didn't allude to it here,
but as we get into the course,
we will see how valuable those tools are.
Once again, we have an exciting journey ahead of
us and I hope you stick around and I hope you apply yourself.
At the end of this course,
you should be able to take on any challenge that comes
towards you in PHP web application development.